 Three years ago today I was in your shoes, and three years ago I never dreamed I would be lucky enough to have met my soul mates. I did not know it was humanly possible to be in love with this many people and be a part of something so unexplainable.

            I came to school thinking I was ready for a new start and excited for what my older friends told me college was like. After only a few short weeks I felt a feeling of emptiness. This emptiness was my best girl friends from home. The eight of us separated after high school and went to different colleges. I hadn’t met good girl friends yet, and I was beginning to think I never would. I quickly became overwhelmingly homesick and wondered if Ohio University was the place for me. Rushing a sorority was out of the question- I thought to myself, “Why would I want to live in a house full of 50 girls? Wouldn’t that be so dramatic?”

            ….And Thank God I was wrong.

            After many phone calls to my mom and friends, longing for home, I decided to make the best decision of my entire life and rush during fall recruitment. I had no idea what I was getting myself into once I stepped into the first house, “Why are these girls so happy and singing to me?” I thought. But, after day one I realized this is where I need to be. Although the process was stressful and I did not truly know these girls I would soon become sisters with, it was evident they were real friends. The real friends I desperately wanted back in my life.

            It seems like yesterday that I opened my bid and became a part of the most influential and heart consuming organization I will ever partake in.

            I don’t remember exactly when or how it happened, but I do know shortly after joining Pi Beta Phi I met the most remarkable human beings I have ever come across.

            (If I could talk about each and every one of you standing here I would)

            Alex, you are the strongest most independent girl I know. If only I could be half the person you are, (I’d probably have an internship with Steve Madden too!) I cannot put into words how much you will be missed next semester. Don’t worry, I will make sure to visit you plenty of times in New York City, because who else will give me fashion advice? The Big Apple isn’t ready for you and I sure as hell am not ready for you to leave here. You’re gonna kill it as always.

            Kaitlyn, my partner in crime, this past summer in Athens with you and Alex was the most life changing experience for me. I never would have had the courage to end a long-term relationship and never would have been able to get through it while at the same time having the most memorable summer of my life without you two. I will never, ever stop talking about ‘that summer in Athens’  Thank you guys.

            Bittle, anyone who meets this girl is extremely lucky because she is truly one of a kind. My college experience would not be what it is if you were not a part of it. You can make anyone in the world laugh no matter what mood they’re in. I sure know your stories will keep me laughing for the rest of my life. I promise to one day write a book about Bittle and it WILL be a best seller. I am so grateful to have met someone like you.

            Leslie, I have known you since day one of OU. I remember vividly our recruitment experience: you wouldn’t tell me what sorority you picked when I was slightly torn. So I finally voted and we both counted, “1,2,3…..PI PHI!!” And here we are, best friends in the best organization known to man. Thank you for being such a loyal friend throughout the years. 

            Allie, my mom away from home, anytime of the day and night you’re here for me. You would take a bullet for any of us (including Karma and Charlie) I can’t thank you enough for supporting me in every decision I’ve made the past few years.

            Brooke and Chelsea, yes you two come in a pair. I didn’t know going into my junior year of OU I would have the chance to gain two more best friends. I can’t think of better people to go to with any problem because you’re there for me no matter what. Whether it’s next to me during turbulence, or me upset about dumb boy problems. You’ve made me so happy to be in the place I am today. (P.S. Chelsea- as I was writing this Mariah Carey- always be my baby came on my Itunes shuffle and I started crying)

            When I look back on my college years, living in this house is what I will picture. It is so indescribable living with 50 of your closest friends. From waking up and going to any room down the hallway, to showering next to five girls all singing at the top of our lungs, to the nights in the snack kitchen spending hours laughing. This is truly my home away from home.

            Pi Phi has taught me more about life than I ever could have possibly imagined that morning when I opened my bid. I have come across so many personalities, and each of you that I have met along this ride have made me a better, more rounded person.

            I have Pi Beta Phi to thank for my obsession for Ohio University and for this dread hanging over my shoulders because I have to leave this place in May. If I could thank you all for the rest of my life for going above and beyond what sisterhood entails, I would. I am confident that this sorority was and is the best decision I have ever made. I wish this chapter in my life could last forever. I love you all more than I could ever put into words. 
